Provenance and context.

"G is true" means "G is true in the evaluation world", the evaluation
world is usually the actual world, in some situations as in a role game
the evaluation world is not the actual world.

There's a benefit in merging graphs only if they evaluate to true in the
same evaluation world.

For example, assuming that a player defining the game reality asserts:
"The world is being attacked with UV-lasers, outside buildings one will
only survive one minutes", and in the same time, the loudspeaker system
of the public building in which the game is being played announces: "We
have just received a bomb alarm, please leave the building immediately
and go to the meeting point in front of the main entrance". Even if both
assertion evaluate to true in their respective world it is useless to
merge the two assertions (or they graph representations). As the game
context is clear to all participants it might be an easy solution to use
a dedicated GVS-Instance for the scope of the game, this is however not
necessary as it is enough to select another set of trusted sources when
needing the knowledge relevant to make decisions within the game than
when making decisions relevant to increasing chances of survival in the
"actual world". Obviously assertion made from a person playing a
game-role are not to be considered as being from the same source as
assertion made by that person 'outside' the game.

It is possible to capture what's going on in the example in one graph by
making the implicit knowledge that the UV-lasers attack is only real
within the game explicit by reifying those statements and asserting
about the reification that this is true within the scope of the game.
Doing so requires a more expressive ontology and  a bigger effort of the
person capturing the data. It also means that b-nodes may get different
identities by facts lying outside the game reality. We also lose the
ability to have a near-lean graph of all we know to be true within the
game. A non lean graph however increases the processing time required to
take a decision within in the game which may be a disadvantage.

I criticize the MSG approach of adding provenance information by
reifying one of the contained statements to arbitrarily change the
identity criteria of a b-node. While such a change of the identity
criteria causes a separation of the assertions from different sources
into subgraphs with no overlapping b-nodes (which can appear to be a
feature), it doesn't change the fact that the union of graphs true in
different evaluation world is very likely to be false in both worlds or
even contradictory.